# Tools for authoring and serving CONACyT codelabs

Codelabs are interactive instructional tutorials, which can be authored in Google Docs
using some simple formatting conventions. You can also author codelabs using markdown syntax.
This repo contains all the tools and documentation you’ll need for building and publishing
your own codelabs.

## Ok, how do I use it?

1. Create a doc following the syntax conventions described in the [Codelab Formatting Guide](FORMAT-GUIDE.md). Here’s an [example doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E6XMcdTexh5O8JwGy42SY3Ehzi8gOfUGiqTiUX6N04o/). Feel free to copy that doc as a starter template. Once you have your own source doc, note its DocId, which is the long string near the end of the URL (right after docs.google.com/document/d/).

1. Make one or more changes and preview your codelab, using the preview app provided by Google. To preview a codelab, install the [Preview Codelab Chrome extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/preview-codelab/lhojjnijnkiglhkggagbapfonpdlinji) in your browser. Now you can preview a codelab directly from the Google Doc view by clicking the Chrome extension’s button, which will open a new tab to display the preview. Alternatively, navigate manually to https://codelabs-preview.appspot.com/?file_id=<google-doc-id>

1. Install the claat command -- see the [README in the claat directory](https://github.com/googlecodelabs/tools/blob/master/claat/README.md) of this repo for instructions..

1. Run the claat command to transform the doc contents into one of the supported output formats. The default supported formats are html and markdown but the claat tool supports adding additional formats by specifying a path to a Go template. For example, using the example document above:

        $ claat export 1rpHleSSeY-MJZ8JvncvYA8CFqlnlcrW8-a4uEaqizPY  
        ok      your-first-pwapp

    You can also specify a markdown document (.md file) as input. It has to adhere to the syntax conventions described [here](https://github.com/googlecodelabs/tools/tree/master/claat/parser/md)

        $ claat export document.md
        ok      your-md-based-codelab

1. Run the claat serve command.

        $ claat serve

This will start a local web server and open a browser tab to the local server. Click on the
hyperlink represent your codelab of interest to experience a fully rendered version.

## How do I generate my own landing page?

See instructions in the [site directory's readme](site/README.md).

## How do I generate a custom view?

Copy the [sample view](site/app/views/vslive), customize it to your liking,
tag and rebuild the codelabs you want included, and then generate your view.

## How do I publish my codelabs?

The output generated by claat is a purely static set of html or markdown code. As such,
it can be served by any web serving mechanism, including any of the following options:

* Github Pages (`*.github.io`)
* App Engine
* Firebase Static Serving
* Google Cloud Storage
* Amazon S3
* Netlify
* Any open source web server (Nginx, Apache)
* `Python -m SimpleHttpServer`

Simply commit the artifacts generated by the claat command into your preferred serving vehicle
and you should be ready to go.

The [site directory](site) contains tools for building your own custom landing page(s) and publishing both landing
pages and codelabs to Google Cloud Storage.

## What are the supported input formats?

* Google Docs (following FORMAT-GUIDE.md formatting conventions)
* Markdown

## What are the supported output formats?

* Google Codelabs - HTML and Markdown
* Qwiklabs - Markdown
* Cloud Shell Tutorials - Markdown with special directives
* Jupyter, Kaggle Kernels, Colaboratory, et. al. - Markdown with format specific cells

There’s no one “best” publication format. Each format has its own advantages,
disadvantages, community, and application domain. For example, Jupyter has a very strong
following in the data science and Python communities.

This variety of formats is healthy because we’re seeing new innovative approaches all the
time (for example, see observablehq.com, which recently launched their Beta release).

While this evolving format ecosystem is generally a good thing, having to maintain tutorials in
multiple formats, or switch from one format to another can be painful. The Codelabs doc format
(as specified in FORMAT-GUIDE.md) can provide a high level specification for maintaining
a single source of truth, programmatically translated into one or more tutorial specific formats.

## Acknowledgements

Google Codelabs exists thanks to the talents and efforts of many fine volunteers, including:
Alex Vaghin, Marc Cohen, Shawn Simister, Ewa Gasperowicz, Eric Bidelman, Robert Kubis, Clare Bayley, Cassie Recher, Chris Broadfoot, Sam Thorogood, Ryan Seys, and the many codelab authors, inside and outside of Google, who have generated a veritable [treasure trove of content](https://g.co/codelabs).

## Notes

This is not an official Google product.
